The next structural directive we’re going
to look at is the NgFor directive.
The NgFor directive instantiates a template
once per item from an iterable.
This means when we loop through a list which
can be either an array or object, we’ll
then display each value in a template that
repeats itself for all values in the list.
When using NgFor in our template we start
with an asterisk followed by ngFor equaling
our expression.
The expression has 2 components.
The first defines a variable to iterate over.
We use the ES6 version of the variable keyword
known as let here.
And the variable name we’re creating is
called book.
Then we use the keyword of as our iterator,
with books representing the list.
You will commonly see ngFor used inside of
a table row in order to create multiple rows.
However, we can create multiple anything including
divs and spans.
In this example we’re using our assigned
variable book then dot notation to grab the
values from our list of books.
Normally we’re grabbing this data from an
API or database but if we created a list of
books in our component this is what it would
look like.
Lets now practice adding a list of books to
our application using the NgFor directive.
So going into our books-list.component html
file I’ll first add in our ngFor loop.
Setting it equal to let book of books.
Then to change around my binding I’m simply
going to add our book variable as a prefix
to each one of our bindings.
Now I’m going to go into my component and
I’m going to change each one of these hardcoded
book properties into an array of objects with
the same values.
I can do this by creating an array with the
name of books that is going to be of type
any and equal to an array of objects.
Then I’m just going to copy over each of
these properties.
And making sure to remove each one of the
declared types along with the equal signs
and then changing the semicolons into commas.
Now, when we save these files and refresh
our app you can see that everything looks
the same as before, meaning our ngFor directive
is working as expected.
We’re only seeing the one book being shown
here since we’ve only created one object
in our books array.
To get a better idea of this directive in
action, lets add one more book to our array
by just copying over the contents of our first
book.
I’ll save this file and on refresh you can
see we now have 2 books shown.
So this should give you an example of how
easy it is to loop through and display whatever
data that we need to on our page.
We’ll conclude our discussion of directives
with an example of how to use the NgClass
directive.